Here we will talk about principles of brain organization

1. The brain's task-positive functions are divided into parallel networks responsible for both sensory (object, sound, tactile) recognition and action (sensori motor-control). The idea is that your sensory systems build targets that your action networks are supposed to manipulate/interact with. Language is nothing more than your brain trying to interact with sounds just like your hand tries to interact with a tool.
2. Sensorimotor networks are carried out by fronto-parietal SLF fibers.
3. Object Recognition networks are carried out by non-SLF fibers (i.e., uncinate, iFOF, ILF, posterior callosal segments). These recognition centers are housed in the visual association areas in the fusiform cortex and in the auditory association areas in the posterior and middle MTG/STG. These are the so-called "ventral pathways".
4. Moreover, the aforementioned networks work antagonistically with the default mode networks such that one is suppressed when the other is activated. Almost like the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems.Just looking at the brain's circulation system, you can see how clearly the supply differs between the middle and anterior cerebral arteries. Each artery supplies the lateral and medial hemispheres, likely motivating the differentiation of those neural populations into discrete functional networks.
5. To train the DMN, self-reflective cognition is needed to either time-travel through episodic memories database or to suppress time in the present moment through meditation. In contrast, the task-positive networks are activated by any external stimulus requiring working memory load and interaction. DMN is facilitated by anterior cerebral arteries blood supply. Function is subserved by the cingulum bundle, along with its parahippocampal component, and it's cortical foci in medial fronto-temporo-parietal cortex, particularly in the precuneous, retrosplenial cortex, hippocampus, medial prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortex. Task-positive networks are facilitated by the middle cerebral artery. Function subserved by the lateral fronto-temporo-parietal cortical areas. Specifically, in Broca's area (including ventral M1), the IPL/SMG, and the pSTG/pMTG, that are interconnected through SLF components.
6. The fronto-striatal projections to the SMA and the frontal aslant tract allow for the speech initation mechanisms to activate the speech cascade. Disruption of this pathway leads to the inability to initiate speech despite have intact sensorimotor control and recognition systems.
